README.md, before:

# My Bingo

A simple, self-contained, offline classical (5x5) bingo application.

## Features

- **Offline:** No internet connection required or used.
- **Customizable:** Use your own word lists and themes.
  - Drop a theme folder into `./themes/` and it becomes selectable without restarting the server.
- **Persistent State:** Your game is saved locally, so you can pick up where you left off.
- **Keyboard Accessible:** Fully navigable using a keyboard.

## Getting Started

To get started, simply open the `bingo_app.html` file in your web browser.

UPDATE: Not true. Local files appears a cross site, and are blocked. You need to
run a web server.

Node (tested and worked):

```bash
npx http-server -c-1 .
```

Python (not tested):

```bash
python3 -m http.server 8080
```

Note: The app dynamically discovers themes from `./themes/`. Most static servers expose a simple directory listing at `/themes/`, which the app parses. If your server does not expose listings, add the optional manifest file described below.

## Usage

- Click on a square to mark it.
- Click "Clear All" to unmark all squares.
- Click "Regenerate Board" to create a new board with the current word list.
- Click "Load New List" to load a new word list from a `.txt` file.

### Themes

- Built‑in themes: `Default (Light)` and `High Contrast`.
- Dynamic theme discovery runs at startup and refreshes every 15 seconds (no server restart required). New themes appear in the Theme selector automatically.
- Theme ID rules (folder name under `./themes/`): letters, digits, `_`, `-` (e.g., `thanksgiving`, `high_contrast`).

Theme pack layout:

```
./themes/<theme_id>/
  theme.json   # required metadata
  theme.css    # required stylesheet (relative path referenced by theme.json)
```

`theme.json` schema (minimum):

```
{
  "name": "Thanksgiving",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "css": "theme.css",
  "description": "Optional human‑readable description"
}
```

Security/validation:
- CSS and asset paths must be local and relative (no `http(s):`, `//`, absolute paths, or `..`).
- CSS is injected as a `<style>` element; no scripts are executed.
- Invalid packs are skipped and the last good theme remains active.

Optional `themes/manifest.json` (for servers without directory listings):

- If your server does not list directories at `/themes/`, create `./themes/manifest.json` so the app can enumerate available themes without parsing HTML.
- Two supported formats:

1) Array of IDs:
```
[
  "high_contrast",
  "thanksgiving"
]
```

2) Object wrapper with `themes`:
```
{
  "themes": ["high_contrast", "thanksgiving"]
}
```

Once present, the manifest is used for discovery and you can still add/remove theme folders; the list updates on the next refresh cycle.

For a focused, step‑by‑step guide, see `docs/Themes_quick_reference.md`.

## Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for details.

## License

This project is licensed under the ISC License.

Commit message:

Enhancements to theme and added new theme
Enhancements to clarify confusion around theme
naming and use. The theme folder is the "id", but
the JSON gives an external name. If those mismatch,
you can have problems with creating themes.

Added First thanksgiving theme as well.

README.md, after:

# My Bingo

A simple, self-contained, offline classical (5x5) bingo application.

## Features

- **Offline:** No internet connection required or used.
- **Customizable:** Use your own word lists and themes.
  - Drop a theme folder into `./themes/` and it becomes selectable without restarting the server.
- **Persistent State:** Your game is saved locally, so you can pick up where you left off.
- **Keyboard Accessible:** Fully navigable using a keyboard.

## Getting Started

To get started, simply open the `bingo_app.html` file in your web browser.

UPDATE: Not true. Local files appears a cross site, and are blocked. You need to
run a web server.

Node (tested and worked):

```bash
npx http-server -c-1 .
```

Python (not tested):

```bash
python3 -m http.server 8080
```

Note: The app dynamically discovers themes from `./themes/`. Most static servers expose a simple directory listing at `/themes/`, which the app parses. If your server does not expose listings, add the optional manifest file described below.

## Usage

- Click on a square to mark it.
- Click "Clear All" to unmark all squares.
- Click "Regenerate Board" to create a new board with the current word list.
- Click "Load New List" to load a new word list from a `.txt` file.

### Themes

- Built‑in themes: `Default (Light)` and `High Contrast`.
- Dynamic theme discovery runs at startup and refreshes every 15 seconds (no server restart required). New themes appear in the Theme selector automatically.
- Theme ID rules (folder name under `./themes/`): letters, digits, `_`, `-` (e.g., `thanksgiving`, `high_contrast`).

Theme pack layout:

```
./themes/<theme_id>/
  theme.json   # required metadata
  theme.css    # required stylesheet (relative path referenced by theme.json)
```

`theme.json` schema (minimum):

```
{
  "name": "Thanksgiving",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "css": "theme.css",
  "description": "Optional human‑readable description"
}
```

Security/validation:
- CSS and asset paths must be local and relative (no `http(s):`, `//`, absolute paths, or `..`).
- CSS is injected as a `<style>` element; no scripts are executed.
- Invalid packs are skipped and the last good theme remains active.

CSS targeting notes:
- The app sets attributes on the root element so your theme CSS can target either the theme id or the human-friendly name.
  - `data-theme` and `data-theme-id` contain the theme id (folder name), e.g. `thanksgiving2c`.
  - `data-theme-name` contains the display name from `theme.json`, e.g. `Thanksgiving2c`.
- CSS attribute selectors compare values case-sensitively by default. You can:
  - Use the id form: `:root[data-theme="thanksgiving2c"] { ... }` (recommended, stable).
  - Or use the name form: `:root[data-theme-name="Thanksgiving2c"] { ... }`.
  - Or add the CSS case-insensitive flag to match regardless of case: `:root[data-theme="Thanksgiving2c" i] { ... }`.

Optional `themes/manifest.json` (for servers without directory listings):

- If your server does not list directories at `/themes/`, create `./themes/manifest.json` so the app can enumerate available themes without parsing HTML.
- Two supported formats:

1) Array of IDs:
```
[
  "high_contrast",
  "thanksgiving"
]
```

2) Object wrapper with `themes`:
```
{
  "themes": ["high_contrast", "thanksgiving"]
}
```

Once present, the manifest is used for discovery and you can still add/remove theme folders; the list updates on the next refresh cycle.

For a focused, step‑by‑step guide, see `docs/Themes_quick_reference.md`.

## Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file for details.

## License

This project is licensed under the ISC License.
